Now let's finish up with the migration scenario.
The migration use case is you're moving or your customer is
moving from one piece of hardware to another,
okay?
In-place upgrade you're assuming the same machine.
The migration case is maybe in business you're on a three 3 year lease
cycle and it's time for a new fleet of computers,
so those computers may already have Windows 10 pre-installed and ready to go.
Now how do you get user preferences and their document data to that new machine?
Now the preferences bit is important.
It's one thing to give them their documents,
and that's fine, it's another to give them the applications that they expect,
that's fine too,
but you're users are going to complain if the new
environment differs from their old one, and obviously,
if you're going from like 7 to 10 there's going to be a
significant learning curve there right out of the gate.
If the user has his or her preferred desktop wallpaper and
mouse pointer size and Windows settings that migration's going
to be much easier for them to handle.
Microsoft, as I said earlier, has a number of migration tools.
Now they used to have, Microsoft that is,
they sold a cross-over USB cable called the Windows Easy
Transfer cable with a funny acronym name,
WET.
That's not supported in Windows 10.
In prior versions of Windows you could do a migration on a PC by PC basis
by connecting them on that double headed USB cable,
and you would run the Windows Easy Transfer application built-in to Windows,
previous versions that is, to transfer,
do a live transfer of the settings from one machine to the other,
and when I say settings I'm talking about the full
user environment; their preferences, their application settings,
and their files.
In Windows 10 Microsoft is partnered with the company LapLink.
LapLink has been around for a long, long time,
and they have a product called PCmover Express,
and they even have their own cable.
If you're familiar with network cables you'll recognize
that as an Ethernet crossover cable.
Now Microsoft was offering heavy discounts on this tool.
You're going to have to go to the site and check for
yourself as of when you're watching this movie to see what
kind of deal you can get on it.
It's not as clean as Windows Easy Transfer,
especially in terms of the cable issue, but it is what it is.
PCmover is the name of the product.
USMT is a collection of command line tools that
stands for User State Migration Tools.
The two tools are ScanState and LoadState.
ScanState you run on the source computer,
and it copies off all of the user environment,
preferably to a network location, and then you run LoadState on the new computer,
and download those settings and applications to the new system.
This is scriptable.
In fact,
I have friends who do this every day in configuration
management when they're migrating systems,
dozens, hundreds of systems,
you need to be able to script and automate these tasks,
otherwise, you're going to be wasting lots and lots of time unnecessarily.
Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager,
or SCCM as it's called, is an enterprised config management tool.
You can do anything OS related.
New operating system deployments,
you can do in-place upgrades on multiple systems,
you can do migrations.
It actually ties into the USMT tools.
The Windows Assessment and Deployment Kit,
the ADK,
is a free download and a big download that gives you that application
compatibility toolkit that I told you about earlier,
but you can also download the User State Migration Tool,
as you see highlighted in the screenshot.
Unfortunately, Microsoft no longer makes the USMT available separately,
so you have to download the ADK, and it's a big download,
6.
7GB if you want everything, and that's the Windows 10 version,
but notice the checkbox controls.
So you can just download the USMT this way if you want to.
Note that the ADK is operating system specific.
Make sure you get the ADK for Windows 10 and not the one for, say, Windows 8.
1 or Windows 7.
A little more on the User State Migration Tools.
These are command line tools,
so if you're allergic to the command line I suggest you get over that,
really.
I say that with tough love because IT has been moving the way towards
administrative automation for several years now.
This is not PowerShell.
This is an old-fashioned executable syntax.
You don't need to know all the details of it,
but basically what we're doing in this command is we're saying,
scan the computer, and pick up all of the user data,
put it on a network server called server in a folder called mystore,
and then we're customizing the process by pathing out to a number of
extensible markup language or XML config files.
You can customize and do exclusions.
I want a migrate these apps, but not those apps because we've already,
say, got them installed on the target computer.
We want to install these docs,
but we want to exclude MP3 audio because that's not allowed in the company.
You see what I mean?
The v switch determines the verbosity level.
Thirteen is maximum verbosity.
When you're doing scripts like this you want the program to kick out,
in general,
you want it to kick out as much feedback as possible because
if something goes wrong you want the verbose output to better
isolate it and isolate it more, I was going to say more faster,
let's just say faster.
LoadState, as I said,
happens on the target system where you pull down the configuration specifying,
it looks like, all of the parameters,
except for our verbose log file name we're calling it load.
log instead of scan.
Many times developers will manufacture a Graphical User
Interface or GUI frontend for a command line tool.
USMT GUI is one such example.
Check the exercise files for the link.
I just wanted to show you this that it is possible to get
around having to know all that syntax.
What this tool does is allow you to use controls,
as you see, graphical controls, to determine what you want to do,
and then it fills in the syntax for you to use,
and even allows you to run it if you have the ScanState and LoadState tools installed on the local system.